Hafen is at the northernmost end of the continent of Digridia. Geographically, it has large harbors along its northern border, and is surrounded completely by mountains on all sides, with the sole exception of an easily-defended pass in the southwest. This pass has a river going through it, and that river marks the border between the Ceanian Kingdom and the Theocracy of Thudia.

The eastern side of Digridia is very mountainous by the ocean and so it's difficult to establish a harbor or trade there. The western side has poor land for agriculture and is extremely dusty. As such, Hafen is an import/export hub for most of northern Digridia.

Hafen is blessed with a large river running into its mainland from the ocean and a pair of smaller rivers that come in from the mountains. Hafen has extremely good soil and is temperate for around 9 months of the year, which means that its agricultural production is immense.

Deaavh, patron of Hafen's necomancers, has a dragon friend guards the kingdom to this day, as the only known dragon to live in any real manner. It has been an ongoing project of the past several generations of the royal family to track down the skeletons of his children, to help safeguard the kingdom from potential dangers.

After fending off an invasion at the cost of the life of his dragon friend, Deaavh brought his draconic friend back as a zombie and ascended to godhood.

The final major god of Hafen (though few are aware of the presence of any god beyond Deaavh) is Bronduis, the God of Continuation. Bronduis values Lineage and Societal Order. All Paladins of Hafen are paladins of Bronduis.

In Hafen, families tend to continue as they have. Peasants are an agricultural class, using the zombies of their ancestors to maintain farms in the spring and fall months, then sending them to the mountains for  the summer. All dead family members undergo the zombification process, though this only occurs upon irreperable death, generally old age or massive brain damage, as true-born Deaavic necromancers can ressurect anybody with a mostly-intact brain and brain stem with no real negative side effects.

Peasants are expected to continue work on the family land, but born necromancers, even if they don't end up working as a necromancer, often acquire some training at some point because it's a useful skill to have.

Education in Hafen is lineage-based, but the lineage with emphasis is whom your master apprenticed (and whom that individual apprenticed under, etc.) under. For most children who aren't running the farms, they take an apprenticeship under an elder craftsman and learn a trade. Potential paladins are chosen by Bronduis and Paladins ready for an apprentice are guided to them, though it is not required they accept.

Peasants keep dogs as pets, nobles and traders cats or more exotic creatures. Old families tend to have jewel-encrusted, mummified zombies of their most honored pets, and often also have a lineage of pets they raise themselves. While pets can be brought back to life mostly intact by any kind of necromancer, though depending upon the cause of death some parents may choose not to to teach their children lessons about responsibility of death.

Whilst necromancers function as priests, Paladins in Hafen function as the kingdom's law enforcement- Bronduis doesn't care so much about what laws are being enforced as long as his people are the ones enforcing them.

Hafen is a very clean country, with working victorian plumbing and gunpowder, which is used for fireworks, and a vast sewer network. Lochs get flushed into the ocean and pumped full of sewage.

The people of Hafen are deeply hedonistic, due to the prevelance of elvish red-light districts and zombies doing grunt work.

Unlike the rest of the world, in Hafen Elves are frowned-upon in polite society. This is because long ago, the Elves chose Hafen as the place their true natures show- most elves in Hafen are hedonistic purveyors of pleasure. Most of the workers in red-light districts are Elves, who are so old and experienced that sex is boring. In Hafen, whilst most people are willing to partake in the services, Elves are seen as a hedonistic race of hookers, drunks, and gamblers.

Elves consider Hafen a wonderful vacation spot, the one place they can relax and let their true natures show. It is not uncommon to see elves shedding their clothing upon arrival in port and dashing to the nearest red light district.

Whilst their main trading pass is heavily defended, Hafen is weak geographically to a naval blockade- as such, they have cultivated a very close relationship with the Finnic Republic, a country of Privateers.