When Hafen was a young kingdom, a very powerful necromancer known now as Deaavh set out to rule the land. The quest was brief, as once people realized they could pay him to talk to (or ressurect) their loved ones. Once he realized this, he created a business out of it, adventuring through the land, befriending a dragon and elven paladin and eventually becoming a member of king's court.

In order to prevent all future necromancers in his beloved Hafen from undergoing the same trauma he once did, Deaavh ascended to godhood and acts as the patron of all natural-born necromancers in Hafen.

After fending off an invasion at the cost of the life of his dragon friend, Deaavh brought his draconic friend back as a zombie and ascended to godhood.

To the outside world, all necromancers acquired their powers through a blasphemous ritual in the name of a nameless, dark god (named Molva). Deaavh rejected this notion, and used his divinity to create a new type of necromancer- all children born with their umbilical cord wrapped around their neck are capable of using a constructive, holy type of necromancy.

Within Hafen, Necromancers function as priests and valued members of any community, ressurecting children's dogs and allowing you to communicate with your deceased ancestors for a mild fee. Necromancers carry out burial rights, and it is a deeply respected position, as all families use well-preserved zombies of their ancestors (and sometimes honored pets) for some purpose or another.

There are two kinds of necromancers, though few are aware- Natural necromancers, whose powers and spells are derived from Deaavh, and Artifical necromancers, whose powers are derived from a Dark, apocalyptic force known as Molva (though few are aware of this difference). The creation of an artificial necromancer is a deeply traumatic process that leaves a mark on the psyche of all individuals subjected to it.

Because of how traumatic the process of becoming an artificial necromancer is, any parents who subject their child to the process are executed, cremated (meaning they will never serve their ancestors in death), and then the child is brought for necromancer training to live life as best they can. Often slightly... off and deeply traumatized, artificial necromancers are widely pitied across the Hafen population.

Because true-born and artificial necromancers have different skillsets, and what few things they both can do are achieved in very different ways, it is deeply frowned-upon to make children into artifical necromancers. Any individuals who subject another to this process are immediately executed and cremated (unable to serve their families in the afterlife) and the children are adopted into a necromantic order.

Deaavic Necromancers use the corpse, or parts of a corpse, to bridge the physical body with the soul living in the afterlife and provide it a comfortable, familiar shell to live in. Limbs can be restored, as the  brain is the part of the body where the soul resides- the rest can be replaced. As long as the soul is willing, the body can be used.

Molvic Necromancers pull souls from the afterlife and shove them into a shell. Molvic necromancy doesn't require the permission of the soul, and all the souls of all undead brought back by Molvic necromancers live in eternal torment.

Necromancy of both kinds requires sacrifice to act upon, though of differing degrees- for example, to ressurect your dead mother, a Deaavic necromancer requires you to burn your favorite piece of clothing. Molvic necromancers require that you kill whomever murdered your mother.